# 739. Daily Temperatures

Given an array of integers temperatures represents the daily temperatures, return an array answer such that answer[i] is the number of days you have to wait after the ith day to get a warmer temperature. If there is no future day for which this is possible, keep answer[i] == 0 instead.

 

Example 1:

Input: temperatures = [73,74,75,71,69,72,76,73]
Output: [1,1,4,2,1,1,0,0]
Example 2:

Input: temperatures = [30,40,50,60]
Output: [1,1,1,0]
Example 3:

Input: temperatures = [30,60,90]
Output: [1,1,0]
 

Constraints:

1 <= temperatures.length <= 105
30 <= temperatures[i] <= 100

```python
class Solution(object):
    def dailyTemperatures(self, temperatures):
        """
        :type temperatures: List[int]
        :rtype: List[int]
        """
        stack = []
        res = [0] * len(temperatures)
        
        for idx, temp in enumerate(temperatures):

            while stack and temperatures[stack[-1]] < temp:
                i = stack.pop()
                res[i] = idx - i

            stack.append(idx)

        return res
```


Approach 1: Monotonic Stack
Intuition

Let's look at a data structure known as a Monotonic Stack. A monotonic stack is simply a stack where the elements are always in sorted order. How does this help us? We can use a monotonic decreasing stack to hold temperatures. Monotonic decreasing means that the stack will always be sorted in descending order. Because the problem is asking for the number of days, instead of storing the temperatures themselves, we should store the indices of the days, and use temperatures[i] to find the temperature of the i 
th
  day.

Monotonic stacks are a good option when a problem involves comparing the size of numeric elements, with their order being relevant.

On each day, there are two possibilities. If the current day's temperature is not warmer than the temperature on the top of the stack, we can just push the current day onto the stack - since it is not as warm (equal or smaller), this will maintain the sorted property.

If the current day's temperature is warmer than the temperature on top of the stack, this is significant. It means that the current day is the first day with a warmer temperature than the day associated with the temperature on top of the stack. When we find a warmer temperature, the number of days is the difference between the current index and the index on the top of the stack. We can declare an answer array before iterating through the input and populate answer as we go along.

When we find a warmer temperature, we can't stop after checking only one element at the top. Using the example temperatures = [75, 71, 69, 72], once we arrive at the last day our stack looks like stack = [0, 1, 2]. For clarity, here's what the stack looks like with each temperature associated with the day: stack = [(0, 75), (1, 71), (2, 69)]. 72 (the current temperature) is greater than 69, but it is also greater than 71. To make sure we don't miss any days, we should pop from the stack until the top of the stack is no longer colder than the current temperature. Once that is the case, we can push the current day onto the stack.

Algorithm

Initialize an array answer with the same length as temperatures and all values initially set to 0. Also, initialize a stack as an empty array.

Iterate through temperatures. At each index currDay:

If the stack is not empty, that means there are previous days for which we have not yet seen a warmer day. While the current temperature is warmer than the temperature of prevDay (the index of the day at the top of the stack):
Set answer[prevDay] equal to the number of days that have passed between prevDay and the current day, that is, answer[prevDay] = currDay - prevDay.
Push the current index currDay onto the stack.
Return answer.

Here's an example animation showing how this algorithm works. For clarity, temperatures of the days are included with the indices:
